# Applications Data

Many people use Employment Opportunity Pilot Project -- 1980-1982. This is naturally useless to me. How can I get some data that shows an increase in job applications???

# Introduction

The hypothesis of this paper is nothing more than "the more rejections you get when applying for a certain type of job, the lower you percieve your chances to be of actually getting such a job." In and of itself, this is not very controversial and, Ceteris Paribus, this is exactly what any model of rationality would predict. The hypothesis here, however, is specifically that even Ceteris very-much-not-Paribus, and even when one's chances of geting a job are not actually lower, one might percieve them to be this way and act accordingly.

I hope it is uncontroversial to claim that applying for jobs is, both in the minds of those who do it and in the most natural way to model it, a probabalistic event. Applying to jobs is arguably an evolutionary game: there are too many other players (all other job applicants and all other firms) to seriously claim that agents rationalize even a single level of reasoning in a traditional game-theoretic framework. Agents follow myopic strategies, and these myopic strategies, I will assume, inherently involve estimating the probability of getting each job before bothering to send an application.

The context of this paper will be to consider potential effects of a technology change that reduces the cost of applying to each job. Recent history is rife with such technologies, from the fax machine to the internet, to integrated profile-cum-job-boards such as LinkedIn. It is not hard to imagine that yet more such technological changes await us in the near future.

Given a reduction of costs, be they time or money, the number of applications sent per job-seekerwill, ceteris parabis, increase as the per-application cost decreases. Assuming that interviewing is still a process that requires human time, as it still does, it is clear that the number of outright rejections the average job-seeker receives must naturally go up with the number of applications the average job-seeker sends.

It is worth noting the difference between a technology lowering search costs and a technology lowering application costs. The cost of applying for a job consists of two parts: the cost of searching and the cost of actually sending the application. If one were to lower the cost of searching without lowering the marginal cost of applying to the next job (by increasing the cost of filling out the application, for example), one would expect better-targeted applications, but one would not expect the quantity of applications to change for any reason. Lowering the cost of sending each marginal application, regardless of how, has an additional effect which is independent of the targeting: more applications sent. Insisting that the independence of this fact holds as a mathematical necessity, I will not consider the effect of better-targeting applications in this paper.

For concretness, consider an applicant that has just spent a day applying to jobs and not received a single interview. Should the applicant spend another day applying to yet more jobs of the same kind, or should they direct their search to jobs that they deem "easier to get", jobs that by revealed preference must naturally be less desireable? This is clearly a question of expected utility and, given the fixed opportunity cost of one day and the known utility of recieving one of these jobs, the only piece of information that the applicant must attempt to estimate is the probability of acceptance.

What can go wrong, then, when people attempt to estimate the probability of getting a job? This is learning by experience: our applicant has had an experience of applying and being rejected and must learn the probability of further rejection. If acceptance is a "rare event", then we can expect applicants to underestimate its probability (cite: ).

# Conclusions


# Future Research
Understanding how individuals direct their job search is crucial if we want to model the labor market and the impact of poilicies on its efficiency. I have argued that job search is, at its core, a process in which individuals must necessarily make judgements about the probabilities of favorable outcomes to different actions.

Learning by experience is one way in which invidividuals estimate these probabilities and this paper has focused on enumerating and testing some statistical biases related to learning by experience. In the experiments, and in the cited literature, I have only considered these biases in "impersonal" contexts. If one judges the probability of winning a "game" to be low, this has nothing to do with their own value or self-worth as an individual. If one judges the probability of getting a job to be low, this a lot to do with their own value and self-worth as individuals!

A simple extension and logical next step would therefore be to understand how learning-by-experience biases change when one is estimating something that might reflect positively or negatively on one's own self image. \cite{} show that _________________, self-preservation, blah blah.

It must also be considered that learning by experience is not the only, and may not even be the primary, way in which individuals estimate the probability of getting a job. Clearly, people do not apply to every single job they would enjoy doing: they know aprior that they are "not qualified" to do certain jobs, akin to estimating the probability of success to essentially zero in those contexts. This estimation involves preconceptions about the world that arguably might affect the way in which people direct their search much more than learning by experience, but also might very much affect the way in which people learn by experience. /cite{} something about failures of bayesian updating in very generic way -- it's not only the prior that changes, but potentially also the updating itself.

This opens the question: how does public and private discourse effect the way in which people search for jobs? It is not hard to imagine that repeated exposure to negative discussions about the state of the economy and a high unemployment rate might come quickly to one's mind after a few rejections, even if it one felt quite confident beforehand.

Aditionally, I believe it is important to note that all of these affects might not only effect the directed search itself, but also the entire perception of bargaining power held by a majority of workers. If one underestimates the probability of getting a job, is one less likely to bargain for a higher wage, form a union, or petition for a raise after having worked for a while? In short, is it possible that a major change in the percieved bargaining power of workers can be caused by something as simple as a theoretically benevolent technological change that has the unfortunate side effect of increasing the absolute number of rejections for the majority of job seekers.
